but as long as anarchism was the kind of
mean aesthetic tendency or the main set
of political assumptions surrounding
animal rights veganism ecology then some
of these questions didn't get dealt with
ultimately what is the fantasy what is
the ideal for the role of the government
in bringing about veganism in this world
bringing about the goals and objective
even ISM in this video I'm gonna try to
talk about a kind of big heavy broad
problem or problematic assumption in
political science that to my knowledge
has never had a name put on it
it's never been kind of formally
addressed or categorized as a problem or
issue and I guess you could call it the
assumption that any criticism leads to
government intervention leads to
something being banned regulated or
eliminated by men in uniform kicking
down your door searching your house
throwing you in prison
this may sound ridiculous but if you
stick with me for a minute you'll you'll
see what I mean
one of the reasons why vegans get such
extreme reactions from meat-eaters when
they set out the case for basically why
meat is bad is that sometimes not all
the time but maybe kind of sometimes the
meat eaters think logically if I accept
this if I accept the idea that eating
meat is bad therefore the government
must make it illegal the next step must
be for this to be clear declared a
banned substance in the same way that
heroin or cocaine or a banned substance
and men in uniforms start kicking down
doors regulation ensues in this sense
now I can't call this a strange delusion
or a strange assumption because in terms
of the type of political discussions
normal people have people who are not
you know specialized in political
science or political philosophy
it may be that most of the debates
they're really involved with do begin
from a question of what should be legal
or illegal and any moral claim
ultimately terminates with an argument
for banning the the thing in question so
therefore in the United States people
who think abortion is bad automatically
attach that view to abortion being
illegal now it's actually I think this
is not true in other countries it's
actually quite novel and amazing to
suggest to Americans that there are some
people who believe board abortion is bad
but should remain legal that there are
intermediate positions on that there are
people you know in Europe this is much
more common there are people who believe
that heroin is bad but it should not be
illegal in this sense this is called the
harm reduction approach and there are
interesting debate surrounding that
however it is probably true that today
for the hoi polloi for the majority of
people who engage with politics only
intermittently the assumption is if you
are going so far as to argue something
is bad then you must be arguing that it
it ought to be illegal and that this
type of government intervention is soon
to follow it's interesting to note that
when the birth control pill was first
introduced to the world I guess in the
early 1960s I've seen film footage of
this but I honestly forget if that was
within the decade of the 50s or into the
60s there are these really surreal
interviews with scientists promoting the
technology of the birth control pill who
are absolutely denying that the purpose
of the pill is birth control who are
sitting there with a straight face and
trying to make a reasoned authoritative
argument for the idea that the birth
control pill is a medicine that is
strictly to help women cope with the
physical pain caused by their menstrual
cycle and if any women choose to use
this drug and then lead a more
promiscuous sex life that's their
business and that has nothing to do with
us we're legitimate scientists and we
developed this pill just
helped women with this one physical
ailment pain during their menstruation
and to help them regulate their
menstrual cycle and that's it and no
questions can be asked about any other
social implications and fortifications a
few to me this reflects the same mindset
where they're trying to avoid the
question even being asked is this good
bad or indifferent they're trying to
avoid the moral conversation and
sociological conversation many people
feel that the birth control pill did
transform society in a meaningful way in
the 1960s or the 1970s or whenever the
technology caught up with wherever
you're living so if people decide this
is bad therefore they will make it
illegal you know is the unstated
assumption underwriting this whole
discourse the reactions I got to
comments on my own blog many years ago
before I had a YouTube channel where I
pointed out that marijuana causes brain
damage and I was able to back this up
with links to recent peer-reviewed
scientific articles that were you know
talking about the way magnetic resonance
imaging brain scans with the current
generation technology were showing in
more detail than ever before that yes
indeed use of marijuana causes brain
damage and we know more and more about
exactly what type of brain damage that
is and what the implications are and so
on some of the people wrote me I wrote I
got amazing hate mail for daring to say
this it's not it's not really an
original opinion and the few people who
I wrote back to either because you know
they were seem somewhat intelligent or
they knew me already you know there
weren't complete strangers what I wrote
back and said well you know why are you
reacting this way I mean I haven't said
anything aside from pointing out you
know marijuana causes brain damage
I discussed specifically also that using
marijuana during pregnancy harms the
unborn baby which many people do not
want to admit to themselves there are
pregnant mothers who want to believe
very strongly that marijuana
a harmless way to cope with the physical
pain during pregnancy it's not it's not
harmless um but they have a very strong
motivation to try to believe this
obviously especially if they've already
maybe had one child and they smoked or
nor wanna during that pregnancy then
they want to convince themselves they
didn't do something that harmed their
own kids so um I can sympathize but I
don't anyway getting this kind of hate
mail I was writing back and asking why
are you responding this June way and I
remember about two people wrote back and
said well people care about their
fundamental right and freedom to use
marijuana and you're trying to deprive
them of this really deep assumption that
we cannot discuss good and evil and we
cannot discuss sociological implications
or even health implications we cannot
judge something to be bad or engage in a
critique of something without it being
attached to the presumed outcome of
making something illegal and making
something illegal in the sense again of
policemen kicking down your door of you
know the most kind of brutal and direct
form of enforcement
now remember actually the the response
that back people was first and foremost
to point out I never said anything like
that go back and this is you know it's a
written blog go back and look at the
words of what I actually said I'm also
right back then pointing out you know on
every US military base in the United
States and probably around the world
people can get marijuana even though
it's illegal so in an environment far
more tightly regulated than any city or
town in an environment where there is
zero percent unemployment
we're economically and sociologically
the conditions are radically different
from any any city any social other
setting your name even there it's not
hard to get marijuana so you know if you
think I have this delusion that calling
something bad
leads to being illegal leads to it
ceasing to exist or something is not the
way I view reality at all it can take
that one a step further in American
prisons to a remarkable extent nor what
has still failed um those statistics are
really depressing but including if you
just talk to people who've been to
prison and obviously they only know for
the particular prisons they've stayed in
they normally have a very good sense of
what drugs are available and how many
days or how many hours it takes to get
different orgs and again a prison is
even more regulated than a military base
these are all more regulated than a city
or university campus so in my making my
argument which isn't even arguments just
citing facts that marijuana is not
harmless that this is something you need
to think about if you're reading my blog
or you're watching my youtube channel
that you need to think about this for
yourself I was not in any way invoking
the power of the government to kick down
your door and throw you in prison I was
asking you to think about what's best
for you but my readers were reacting
this with this deep-seated assumption
that what I was saying was implicitly
endorsing this kind of use of state
power um the most extreme examples this
I remember this came from my
ex-girlfriend my girlfriend who became
my wife who's now my ex-wife we were
together for many years as you can
imagine but I remember when she was at
Oxford rather than Cambridge both very
respected universities of course she had
some class where the issue of female
circumcision came up female circumcision
also known as female genital mutilation
is a cultural practice not really a
surgery that involves very badly and
injuring women for the rest of their
lives for religious and cultural reasons
you can google it if you don't know what
I'm talking about
there a female circumcision but male
circumcision is bad enough female
circumcision you look into it is
even scarier and one of the women in the
class who would have been about the same
age as my ex-wife um respond to this she
obviously had not heard of it before or
thought it before she sat there in the
class this is a seminar for everyone
there is either a master's student or a
PhD student these are advanced graduate
students in an esteemed institution of
study and simply repeatedly and loudly
demanded we should conquer these
countries and go to war and force these
people to stop doing reaction to reading
some academic article about no
circumcision no Hill this is absurd in
many different ways including the fact
that you know for do you really think
the problem is a lack of Western bombing
in that part of the in the countries
being concerned here do you think that
the the paucity of Western military
intervention is really the problem like
and you know looking over the history of
the world since the year 2001 um how how
do you feel the you know Western
bombardment of Muslim nations has done
in terms of morally uplifting these
countries like you know do do you think
this has had a net positive benefit for
um you know questions of female genital
mutilation and other culture right it's
a shockingly June thing to say and in
many different ways but this young
woman's tenacious certainty that the
correct response to being presented with
a moral problem of this kind was step
one to decide that it's bad step two to
call for violence intervention
ultimately men in uniforms kicking down
doors in this case also bombs dropping
from airplanes to solve the problem so I
said this is a habit of mind this is a
way of thinking about the ongoing
history of the world that's very often
at work when meat eaters respond so
negatively
- just being presented with questions of
good and evil and better and worse and
healthy and unhealthy that's around
veganism and ecology the ultimate
example of this that intersected with my
own what life I think is doubtless
communism and anti-communism there
really was a time I within my lifetime
when you could not engage in an honest
conversation about how bad communism was
bad in various ways again it's not just
good and evil there's effective and
ineffective and competent and
incompetent and there's so many headings
under which you can evaluate and analyze
and talk about the history of communism
or the what's going on presently with
communism and judge this to be that
because people around you would freak
out in exactly this way because the
assumption was if you were willing to
admit there was a problem if you were
willing to talk about what was bad in
communism therefore you were like the
McCarthy trials the United States
therefore you endorsed starting a
nuclear war therefore you must believe
in on the one hand military action
against whether it's Russia or China or
some of the country and therefore also
you must believe in you know police
officers in men in uniform
going from door to door and arresting
members of the Communist Party we still
have a communist party here in Canada we
still have several we saw great many I'm
not terribly popular but probably
whatever country you're living in where
you're watching this video probably has
one too so for me this raises a lot of
interesting questions about veganism now
in 2016 because veganism has drifted
away from the anarchistic roots of
animal rights of 15 years ago I've
talked about that in recent videos which
was very interesting were think about in
its own right um no I'm not upset about
that I'm not an anarchist but as long as
anarchism was the kind of main aesthetic
tendency or the main set of political
assumptions surrounding animal rights
veganism ecology then some of these
questions didn't get dealt with well
ultimately what is the fantasy
what is the ideal for the role of the
government in bringing about veganism in
this world bringing about the goals and
objective ISM eye on my channel often
make the comparison to cigarette smoking
that you know yes we would like as a
society to eliminate the smoking of
tobacco or reduce it to nearly zero and
yet we've had the maturity not to do
that by just declaring cigarettes
illegal that is really a tremendously
important historical precedent it's both
visible and invisible all around us all
the time you can grow a tobacco plant in
your backyard it's not illegal you can
have tobacco plants as house pets if
sorry house perhaps you could have a
potted plant in your living room growing
tobacco nobody cares
and of course cigarettes are sold almost
everywhere you wouldn't have to walk
very far to get them but we have a very
open conspiracy as a society we
certainly do here we probably do
wherever you're living in the world to
inform people that if they smoke
cigarettes what they're doing is wrong
it's bad for you it's bad for me it's
bad for us as a society it's bad for the
planet and just the wrongness just
getting across the sense in which this
is bad and health is a component of it
but health is only one component there
are also issues of psychology you know
addiction what it means to have a
meaningful life there are so many
reasons so much cultural packaging tied
into this idea that we as a society are
going to emerge from an historical
period when cigarette smoking was
ubiquitous you big with us it was
absolutely everywhere - a period in
which it's either rare or disappears
when it's regarded as old fashioned
unhealthy outmoded backward etc not all
societies are making this transition
equally smoothly if you've ever been to
a train station in France boy the
struggle to smoke cigarettes despite the
fact that it's illegal to smoke inside a
train station you get to see that
unfolding all around you
so that's why I make this comparison to
cigarette smoking so often but there -
there are still elements of government
intervention there are warnings on
packages there are myriad laws and legal
debates about what the role of the state
should be in restricting the right of
cigarette companies to advertise so even
then there are elements of government
coercion involved and I think there are
real questions of social planning
currently we have both nation-states and
the UN the United Nations openly
declaring that the amount of meat being
produced should increase above it's
already absurdly high levels now that it
should keep going up and up that as an
industry that should bloom and expand
and blossom and total meat production
for the world should reach an incredibly
high point on the in the future horizon
obviously social planning for the future
even if it is just the government
advising that this is unwise not only in
the level of individual meat consumption
that that should be reduced but that
this industry as a whole has to contract
there are all the questions surrounding
a government subsidy to agriculture
which you know like the question of
government subsidy to tobacco production
gets tied into this so alright obviously
I have not presented this to be a kind
of simple diatribe with a simple
conclusion I think the purpose of this
video is to raise a complex set of
questions but last things first why is
this come up in our lives as vegans
again and again because I think this is
an unstated reason for the hostility
others have in reacting to us this is
one of the profoundly unsettling things
about veganism it's part of the
challenge of the status quo it's part of
the sense in which what we're talking
about seems to be a threat to the
establishment and cultural assumptions
even when we feel what we're talking
about is not threatening at all as they
say for me this is parallel to in the
past the terror people had for admitting
that the birth control pill is really a
birth control pill or the terror and
anger that I saw in people reacting to
my just being willing to speak openly
about the negative aspects of marijuana
marijuana use